yk what we live in a late-stage capitalistic dystopia where the working class is forced into this fake meritocratic system—we are encouraged to step on one another again and again and again for a sliver of a chance to earn—be deserving of—a more comfortable life. this system is controlled—sorry, "governed" by shitbrained poopooheads capital L Losers who don't know the first thing about economics nor politics nor sociology, nor what it means to be fucking human, and we're out here crying over fucking numbers? di nga grumaduate yung presidente natin ng college tangina ano ba pake niyo kung dpwas ako i'm better than his crusty old ass and you voted for him. this stupid system that perpetuates human suffering through continuous ignorance and the separation of community is run by self-serving clowns who's best trait is that daddy had a cute jingle 10 fucking years ago.  
  
gotta give it to them. they almost broke me. humanista ako, pakshet baka anak to ni engels at marx; pamangkin ni mao zedong HAHAHAHAHAH being dpwas in up fucking diliman is a fate worse than failing, kasi who would give up their slot sa upd? no one. pero hindi sila ang kalaban ko. kahit na puro naka-wheels at "kuya make para here" ang mga kaagaw ko ng slots. kalaban ko ang kung sino mang tumutuligsa sa christmas wishlist ko na libreng kalidad na edukasyon para sa lahat. kalaban ko ang kadiliman at kasamaan, at up passer waitlist dpwas shet kahit bagsak o di nagtake kalaban natin sila.  
  
kasi tangina, bakit kailangan natin maglabanan para dito? lamang ang may genetics na matalino. lamang ang may pera pangreview. lamang ang napunta sa lenient na guro. so bakit di nalang para sa lahat?  
  
at the end of the day i did my best. i know i did my best. if you think it's not enough, fuck you ikaw nalang mag-aral kung mas magaling ka ambot sa imo. i had the worst year of my life and it's only april; but you won't break me. i'm bipolar and depressed and anxious and all the other fruity little letters in the DSM-5 and that's probably why dpwas lang ako pero putangina unang topnotcher to ng humss in half a decade sino ako para maglaho sa sistemang pilit na binuburol ang mga isip ng kabataang sawa sa pagmamaltrato ng ganitong buhay. i'll reach my dreams in manila putangina di ko kailangan ng bullshit "iska" "isko" sa bio ko. di ko kailangan ng validation ng magulang ko or ng kaklase ko or whatever the fuck. di ko pangarap ang maging iskolar ng bayan pangarap kong huminga bilang ang katotohanan ko and you will rip that future from me in my cold dead hands. it's not over until it's over. no matter what you say or what you do,  
  
i may be the shell of the person i was a year ago, pero sometimes it still rings true—baka ayesha m. almirez to noh 😎